To answer the questions posed in the task:

This truly took me about 2 hours. I set a timer for 1 hour 55 minutes, and when that went off I took 5 minutes to wrap up.

I used Cursor, alongside a little bit of JetBrain's AI inside PHPStorm. I've detailed several examples where I rewrote my output within README.md, but one such example would be where I felt the logic being in web.php made no sense. Cursor wanted all of the SDLT calculation process in web.php. I felt that was extremely messy and instead manually created the TaxController, moving the logic over to that file instead.

I verified the maths by comparing against HMRC's calculator, googling and reading up on tax bands (not using the AI overview, I wanted to be sure), and sometimes simply just with a calculator using my existing bands from my JSON to confirm I wasn't crazy when the numbers came out wrong a couple times. Surprisingly I found the AI was very accurate on the initial calculations, however oddly enough it failed with the calculation for an additive 2% when a non-UK national was purchasing as a first-time buyer, instead only applying that extra 2% once the 5% applied above £300,000. I spotted this and manually corrected it.

If I had another hour, I would have researched non-residential purchases next and implemented those calculations next, maybe followed by leasehold calculations if I had the time. I won’t address the CSS since that wasn’t part of the task, but in a real world environment I’d commit more time to it. I’d maybe have also have done more unit testing (as in any unit testing) but if I'm honest I don't think I would have gotten around to it in just one hour. I typically use a bit more of a TDD model to my development but under the time pressure I ended up doing no unit tests, and would love to have started testing it more thoroughly after I implemented the remaining functionality.